We recently had our first generative
media conference and Jeffrey Katzenberg,
former CEO of DreamWorks was there and
he he made a comparison. He said this is
exactly playing out how animation when
it first came out. People people
revolted against it. It was all
handdrawn before that and computer
graphics it was new and there was a lot
of rebellion against computer-driven
animation and something very similar is
is happening with AI right now but
there's there's no way of stopping
technology it's just going to happen
you're either going to be part of it or
or that.
In this episode, we sit down with a team
from Fall, the developer platform and
infrastructure powering generative video
at scale. follow is a place that
developers can go to access more than
600 generative media models
simultaneously from OpenAI Sora and
Google VO to openweight models like
Clling. We'll discuss why video models
present fundamentally different
optimization challenges than LLMs why
the open source ecosystem for video has
a thriving long tail in ways that text
models never did and why the top video
models have a halfife of just 30 days.
The team also shares insights from the
demand side of the video model equation.
We discuss what's happening in the app
layer from AI native studios to
personalized education, what's happening
in Hollywood and more. Enjoy the show.
Borai Gork Batwan, thank you so much for
joining us today. I want to start with
the problem space that you decided to
tackle. So, FAL is a developer API and
platform for generative video and image
models. Video is massive. Obviously, it
is more than 80% of the internet's
bandwidth and it follows that generative
video is going to be similarly massive.
But there's not that many companies that
are focused on this problem. Why do you
think that is?
>> Yeah, in a way generative image and then
video was a overlooked market in in this
current phase of AI
in my opinion for two reasons. Number
one, uh there wasn't a very clear
industry use case that people were going
after. uh there wasn't wipe coding that
auto automates software engineering or
there wasn't search uh which seems LLM
market is going after or customer
support anything like that also number
number two the investment on the
research side wasn't wasn't as big three
years ago and then that ramped up a
little bit slower than LLM's but still
considerably since then and now the the
the models are much more capable
much more useful and real industry use
cases compared to what it was 3 years
ago. It felt like a toy use case. This
was just going to be for fun on the side
and it's going to be a small market at
the end. And now we can see that it's
going to be a massive market with very
unique use cases and customers compared
to the LM market. Like if if you
actually go back to like as we were
experiencing it, I think uh that that
was an interesting time. We were uh we
were working on some like Python compute
infrastructure and then these these
models like Delhi 2 had just come out
and then soon after that Chachet had
come out and then Llama Llama had come
out and we were just like we were
initially we we didn't know uh that that
you know image and video market was
going to get that big. um we were
actually just curious about like running
image models much faster. That was that
was like our initial entry point. And
then uh we saw like the initial growth.
We had a few customers and they were
growing really fast. We were like what
the heck is going on? And and then you
know a few customers later we actually
uh thought hey we should double down
here. And around that time also the
other thing that was happening was
people were overindexed on language
models. this like story of AGI was being
told and and you know that attracted all
the dollars that attracted all the
talent. So everyone was just like
working on that where we thought like we
had something niche like growing fast
you know don't tell anyone [laughter] uh
and then and then we just like started
focusing on that and and soon after like
as we got more familiar with the models
we thought the u I remember I think we
changed our website copy to say
generative media like generative media
platform and then it was only like two
or three months after that uh Sora was
announced. Uh so so we were definitely
like ahead but but we we really saw the
whole like future kind of coming with
like better image models, video models,
etc. So so yeah, we we made this early
bet.
>> I mean you guys have a front row seat to
the sorts of new experiences people are
building. I think it the market's only
going to expand from the media market
that we know today.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think like I'll
quote tweet, you know, no good podcast
without it. He he did he did one like
recently where he was talking about like
why he's excited about the you know
media models and one of the things he
said was that like he he also mentioned
that right like know people are visual
and we're going to we have more so much
more video than than text like wall of
text and he was saying like um he was
making a point around like education and
a lot of the like content you consume
just to like like learn things I think
right now the model quality is just like
like relatively it's so much like it's
so much worse than what it can be where
like you could actually like have you
know I do a lot of learning on chat GPT
but it's like through text but if if if
it actually rendered a video where it
could compress like a concept right
instead of you know 10,000 characters if
it could do it in in like 15 seconds uh
it'd be so much better. I I think like
there's there's sort of like uh the
quality bar where if like it's it's
going to go up and and if you have that
once we have that we're going to have
even more more penetration. So it's a
it's really a function of the quality
right now and we're just like in the
very early beginnings.
>> Totally. education market almost
untouched right now with with video
generation and there's so much potential
there and it's just waiting the quality
the predictability to get there and I
think it's going to have a lot of
potential.
>> Totally. I mean you guys sent me that
generative video Bible app. [laughter]
I think it's a much better way to learn
some of the lessons from the Bible and
it's it's you know if you're capturing
consumers attention right where they
are. Uh I think it's I I agree with you.
We're we're just at the beginning. Um,
so Fall is an infrastructure company and
so we're going to structure today's
interview. I love infrastructure
companies and in terms of the technical
layer cake. So we're going to start from
the core inference engine compilers,
kernels that you built. Uh we're going
to go up to the model layer and then the
workflows and and then end with some
observations on the markets and what
people are building. Sound good?
>> Let's do it. Sounds exciting.
>> Okay, let's do it. Uh the inference
engine batwin, how [laughter] old are
you?
>> 22.
>> You're 22 years old. Okay, stay away on
your background. I think it's super
badass and uh makes complete sense why
why this company is so hardcore at
>> I I I started working on compilers when
I was 14. So in a way I have like a lot
of experience on that [laughter] front
you know it's not just that but like I
started working on open source projects.
So my first contributions were around
tooling around the Python language and
then I started started to slowly
contribute back to the Python language
core compiler core parser and the core
interpreter itself and became like one
of the core maintainers of it. uh I
think at the time I was like the
youngest core maintainer of the language
and this kind of gave me like a unique
appreciation of compilers and how
flexible they are. So when we first
started like working on serving these
image models at fall the the main idea
was okay there is like these like three
different image models three different
architectures but this is surely going
to explode. there's upscalers, there's
like you know there's going to be video
models. We were predicting that and we
didn't want to go optimize a single
model, put our eggs into a sing single
basket and then go became invalidated
when the next model comes. So we started
building this inference engine which is
a tracing compiler that traces the
execution and essentially tries to find
common patterns that are fitting within
the templated kernels that we do. So our
our bread and butter is like spending we
have a 10% performance team that's
spending all their efforts into writing
kernels that are like 95% there but like
generalized with templates. So we find
we trace the execution of a model and
find common patterns that could like
replace these templated semi-generic
kernels to like specialized kernels at
runtime and optimize the performance of
these models. And we found this
technique to yield like pretty much spir
results from anything that's out there
in the market. And this led us to claim
like number one spot on performance on
on all the benchmarks. And another big
thing about this is we specialize in
doing like this sort of kernel level
mathematically correct sound
abstractions that let us like you know
maintain the same quality of these
models which is a very high bar when
you're in this media industry and when
you really care about the output that
you're getting.
>> What's different between optimizing a
diffusion model versus an autogressive
LLM? in autogressive LMS like your
bottleneck is how fast you can move uh
all those like giant weights from memory
to SRAMM because you have like a $600
billion parameter model and you're
trying to predict the next token you're
doing the attention for like all the
tokens like a couple tokens before that
in diffusion models you're trying to den
noiseise like thousands tens of
thousands of tokens for a video at the
same time doing attention of it so
you're essentially saturating all the
compute bandwidth of these mod of these
GPUs you're not necessarily bound on
memory bandwidth but like the the
computational operations that you do are
like fully saturated. So you're trying
to find better ways to execute around
the GPU. This could be like writing more
efficient kernels or this could be
overlapping you know softmax with gams
that you do like it's essentially like
you're you are trying to use all of the
power of the GPU leverage in a way that
like you know that gets you all the
capabilities.
>> So it's a different binding constraint.
It's on the compute versus the memory.
And what's the intuition for why LLMs
are relatively memory constrained and
why video models are by comparison
relatively compute constrained but not
as large in terms of just sheer number
of parameters. I I think it's scaling
issue, right? Like in terms of like if
you scale this video also 600 million
parameters with the same dense
architecture, you're going to have to do
attention with all those full like 100
like let's say a single video is 100,000
tokens and you do this attention step or
like you do this like denoising step 50
times and every 50 times you do like
attention over all these like 100,000
tokens, it's insanely insanely
expensive. So I think the constraint
there is like just how fast you can do
the inference and the same applies with
LM at like larger batch sizes but like
at like the traffic patterns that people
do like you know the batch size are not
that much and you're mainly constrained
by memory bandwidth so people do
optimizations like speculative decoding
and other other factors to like reduce
that overload.
>> Yeah. what exactly goes into being at
the top of the leaderboard in terms of
performance because I would imagine
there's other teams that also have very
smart people and you know this is this
is my Olympics and so what exactly goes
into I imagine people have like very
similar ideas on the techniques and
different optimizations they can do. So
>> I don't think anyone cares about it as
much as us. We are literally obsessed
with Jared Media. We're literally
obsessed with these models. We have a
team that's like just focusing on this.
Like so far like it seems like and from
Nvidia to other inference players,
everyone is like super obsessed with
language models. Everyone is trying to
get like one more tokens per second on
like Deepseek benchmarks, whatever. And
like we're like on a on a different
lane. We have like competitors but like
no one close to us because I think we
assembled one of the best teams. We
found out like the best way to optimize
this general models and we just focus on
this. This is like a purely focus thing,
right? Like at the end of the day,
you're constrained by the hardware.
There's nothing unique about it. But
like we're just like three months ahead,
six months ahead. Like when we benchmark
Torch, like the latest version of Torch
against like you know our inference
engine from a year ago, we're clearly we
are clearly underperforming because like
torch caught up. The same thing is going
to happen with other players. You're
going to always like the lead that you
can maintain is three months, six months
ahead at most. The thing that matters is
just focus. If you focus on it, if you
purely put all your energy into it, I
think that's like there's it's very hard
to get out competed by others
>> because models are slightly changing
each month uh each release. So, it's
still the same general architecture, but
there are slight differences where we
can go in and optimize where that's
different and no one else is paying that
much attention to it. Also, hardware is
changing as well. So we were able to
adapt to B200s earlier than anyone else
and we were able to run video models
much faster basically throughout the
year because of that obsession with
running video models with the latest
hardware.
>> Yeah. Got it.
>> What are the hardest technical problems
that you think you're solving?
>> So one thing people don't appreciate it
as much is we are running 600 different
models at the same time. We have to be
running them. We have to be so good at
running them that we should be running a
single one of them better than as if
someone else is running a single model
because when a foundational lab is
running models, maybe they have a single
version of the model, maybe they have
like couple other different versions and
that's what all they care about. We have
to be better than them at running those
models and we have to be doing all 600
at the same time. So on top of the
inference optimizations that happens in
the GPU a lot of optimizations on the
infrastructure level needs to happen. We
need to manage the GPU cluster in a way
that's efficient to load unload these
models at the right times. We need to
route traffic to the right GPUs who have
the warm cache of these models. You need
to be smart about choosing the right
kind of machines which which kind of
chips are running what kind of models
and the the customer traffic is changing
all the time and we need to adapt
towards that. So on top of the inference
engine the the overall infrastructure is
also really really hard beast to manage
and so far we've done an incredible job
at that. Would you add anything to to
>> I I I think that's a pretty fair uh fair
explanation of what we do. Like I call
this distributed supercomputing. I don't
know why people don't like that name but
like you know it [laughter]
>> uh but like the idea is we are at like
28 like this was like a month ago. Now
we are at probably at 35 different data
centers and you have these like
heterogeneous groups of compute that
split across with their own like you
know different specs different
networking whatever and you're trying to
schedule workloads as if it's like a
homogeneous cluster that you got from
hyperscaler it doesn't work like that so
we built like we spend the last three
years building abstractions over it from
our own orchestrator to building our own
CDN like we go back to like you know
fundamentals of web and we built our own
CDN service uh deploying racks to coloss
like you know just
routing traffic. So we build all these
technologies to essentially make sure
that we can tap into capacity wherever
it is and schedule our workloads which
is like very different than like a
traditional enterprise LM usage pattern
you know like the the the use case that
we have are like so much more spread
across so much more you know like uh
more consumerf facing and like when when
you consider that like there's so much
investment going into making sure we can
tap into this like scarce capacity of
GPUs. Yeah, you mentioned hyperscalers
and you know I hear distributed compute
and I hear managing giant clusters and I
naturally think that's somewhere where
hyperscalers should have the incumbent
advantage. Um why do you think that
you've been able to so far execute them
on the core engine?
>> I there's two things about the core
engine right there's the inference part
where none of the hyperscalers have any
expertise. Uh this is a net new field. I
think this has been only happening for
the past three years inference
optimization. So it's like a brand new
lane that we have been out competing
anyone in our field. I think like that's
like a pretty much uh answer of its own.
And the second one is infrastructure. I
think right now hypers scalers are very
busy with their traditional uh pattern
of oh we have this data center capacity.
We'll just deploy GPUs and we don't care
about the rest. This has been changing
recently. You know even like Microsoft
is going buying from neoclots. this is
like there's like an interesting pattern
happening because the GPUs and the
demand and the growth of GPUs doesn't
fit to the patterns of these
hyperscalers the growth patterns they
expect. So I think at this age not even
hyperscalers have that big of an
advantage of scale because like they're
going buying GPUs from neocclass like
the tables have turned a bit.
>> Yeah. It almost helps to also be like
slightly earlier like in the c like in
the company journey, right? Like if if
you're a public company, you also have
to kind of abide by like what the what
the market's expecting of you. So like
>> the the the other thing is that there's
a huge price discrepancy with
hyperscalers and neo clouds, right? So
like it's it's maybe sometimes 2x three
3x more expensive to use things at, you
know, through a hyperscalers. what's
driving that?
>> Um well I think I think one is like
market pressure,
>> right? Uh and also like there's added um
kind of operational expenses that
hyperscalers have for like having you
know better they just have a better
service right better uptime and better
SLAs's and all of these things add up
and and then on top of that there's kind
of an established like cloud margin
right and and you know the market
expects the cloud margin to be a certain
level whereas like if you have a
three-year-old neocloud you know you're
you're a private company maybe you don't
have as much pressure and there's like
assuming infinite demand and and uh
limited capacity you can actually you
know hyperscalers
>> can keep their prices high and and you
know they will fill out the capacity and
also like get get slightly better
economics whereas like neoclouds compete
over the whole whole like infinite
demand and and that that pushes the
prices down.
>> Perfect price competition. Um what does
it take to run image versus video
models? as well like you guys started a
company around a stable stable diffusion
moment. It was the field was mostly
image at the time. How does running
video models compare to image?
>> Let's actually do text, image, video
even let's compare all three of them. Um
so for for let's say a sort LLM like we
don't know let's say deepseek or or
something like that where we know the
numbers running a single prompt like 200
tokens uh let's say it takes 1x of of of
teraflops uh I think it's tens of
teraflops but let's call that unit one
uh one image is around 100x of of that
and if you are doing a 5-second video 24
fps test that is around 120 frames. So
100x from one image. So you you are
already 100x of um of 100x. So you are
at you're at a,000 uh 10,000x for for a
st low low of standard definition video.
And if you want to do 4K, that's another
10x. So 10 10,000x compared to a a
single uh 200 token LLM input. So it is
a lot more compute intensive in terms of
uh amount of flops you are doing.
>> Yeah. Uh in in in general like when we
started with image the infrastructure
was relatively easier to do because it's
like it takes three sec or it took 15
seconds back in the days. It takes 15
seconds to generate an image. You don't
need necessarily shave like that 50 ms
100 ms you have overall in the system.
And then when we went to video, it's
like even like easier because it takes
like 20 seconds, 30 seconds to generate
a video. The way that has been happening
in the past like couple months is
real-time video where you need to stream
24 fps videos over the or like a network
link to the from these GPUs. That's
where we actually spend like now some of
our time. We started this progress with
like speechtospech models a year ago. We
started optimizing them where we were
able to like reduce the latency of our
system with like globally distributed
GPU fleet. when you send a request, we
route it to the closest GPU, minimize
our own overhead and then do stuff like,
you know, we we pick the best run
runner, whatever, stuff like that. So,
we are now applying those same
optimizations with it to real-time
video. And we actually see like really
good interesting demand there where
people want to experience these stuff
like as they type, as they prompt. And
that's where like some of the
infrastructure technical challenges
differ from traditionally running image
and video models because image and video
are similarish you know like just more
compute expensive but like you actually
need to care about infrastructure stuff
when you go from like less than a second
generation time for some of these uh
models.
>> Yeah. Another another interesting thing
is like uh image image models especially
you were able to run them on a single
GPU uh like the parameter counts is
actually much smaller. So that actually
makes it like a little bit easier for us
as opposed to LMS. Uh and then with
video parameter count is going up. Right
now I think we're around like for the
open source ones I don't know 30 billion
parameter. Uh whereas you know we we we
hear rumors about you know GPT4 being
like in the trillions GPT5 maybe more.
So, so that's that's another that's
like, you know, on the on the flip side,
it's a little bit easier, but it doesn't
mean video models are not going to grow,
right? Uh there's, you know, rumors
around numbers for VO, numbers around
Sora. So, like there's also a like
increase in parameter count. So, so that
that you're going to have to kind of,
you know, use more distributed
computing. But but if you're just you
know eight nodes that's a or one node or
eight nodes you you kind of have a
slight advantage.
>> Yeah totally. Okay let's pop one layer
up the stack to the models.
>> Let's do it.
>> So one thing I think people don't fully
appreciate at the media space and you
mentioned this you alluded to this
before is that there are there's a very
very long tale of models that are
actually used in practice. And so I was
hoping you give people a sense of on
your platform how many models are people
actively using? How's it distributed?
And like why do you think there's such a
long tale of models being used compared
to the LM space?
>> This is actually one of the things I
would say three years ago people got it
wrong. I mean jury is still out but
people right after the chachi PT people
started talking about omni models.
There's going to be these giant models
that are going to be able to generate
video audio image and code text every
type of token. This this might still
happen I think but it's more clear that
you are better off if you optimize for a
certain type of output. Uh even this is
true for code generation definitely true
for image or video output. Uh so that's
one thing when we were pitching three
years ago everyone like that's one
feedback we got. Oh there's going to be
omnimodels and there's going to be a
single way of running these. it's going
to be hard to create
an edge on on the modality. But turns
out it's it's it's not true and it it
actually makes sense to to have a
technical edge on the modality. Um, and
this is one of the reasons why there's
also a variety of models because still
the best upscaling model is just doing
upscaling and the best image editing
model even the best text to image model
is different from the image editing
model. So all these special tasks
require their their own model. It might
be the all the the the the similar model
model family or similar architecture but
at the end of the day it has its own
weights that needs to be deployed
independently and that creates the
variety in the ecosystem. I I think
there's also the like this also applies
to language models where even this in
the same modality there is different
families of models with different taste
different characteristics there's
different personas and this happens with
like language models still like the code
that claude writes is very different
than the code GPT5 does right like and
like we see this happening but the the
good thing about here is like there's
like these three four different personas
on top of like different like categories
upscaling editing video text video
whatever stuff like that so it get it
gets you like you know close to 50
models that are active at any point in
time and then you have a very long tale
of models that people still choose
because they might like the person of
that better.
>> Yeah, totally. Um speaking of model
personalities, what are some of the most
popular models on your platform? What do
you think are the personalities of them?
>> So one thing that's been true since the
beginning, the popular models change all
the time. So there's always new releases
from different labs that take over the
other and it's it's always a moving
target. But that being said, there's two
types of models usually preferred by our
customers. It's it's usually there's a
one big expensive model that has the
best quality on video generation. This
this could be VO uh this could be cling
this could be Sora and then there's
usually a workhorse model which is
cheaper smaller but good enough and
people usually use that at higher
volumes I would say this has been true
for the past almost two years that
there's an expensive high quality model
uh that that keeps changing there's a
cheaper good enough model that keeps
changing but overall this this has been
constant and is workhorse model for
prototyping and then you run it through
the big expensive model for the final
product or what what do people use the
workhorse versus?
>> It's for higher volume use cases. Um and
depending on the application you are
building you might you might encourage
um different like lots of variations of
the same output maybe but it's it's very
application specific I would say. Yeah,
there's there's also another dimension I
think that's like kind of happening in
real time right now which is uh based on
like the different use case you want to
use the model for. So like one when um
uh OpenAI released GPT uh image editing
that model had just like like superior
text editing uh text generation and
editing capabilities and for things that
require like a lot of text people
started going you know and choosing that
model versus the other models. So it it
also tends to correlate with like
different capabilities models are uh
bringing and and also like what they're
like what they're good at right so like
cling for example uh people really like
it for visual effects type types of uh
workflows because you know they they had
they had that kind of data in their data
set uh as opposed to uh you know some
some some other models uh for example
Cance is like very good at like detailed
textures and and artistic diversity
things like that. So it's it's really
it's really a matter of also like this
this sort of use case dimension uh that
that models excel at. An interesting
metric that we saw on Q2 and Q3 was
halflife of a top five model was 30
days.
>> Wow.
>> That's it's very very interesting to me
where like you know these models are
continuously shifting like the top five
of of the models are continuously
shifting. tough depreciation schedule
for the for the model providers.
>> Hopefully they are building on top of
[laughter] the work that they already
done. So it's it's you know additative
to to the end. But yeah.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm teasing and and the model
probably is in a more turbulent state
right now than than what the end state
will probably be. Um what do you guys
think is the most underrated model? Like
what's your personal favorite?
>> I I usually like cling models for video.
Um
but this kind of has been changing
because they don't have sound. Uh for
sound we have V3 and Sora. They they are
the only ones. A lot of people are
working on it. So would love to have
more more variety there as well.
>> Image models. I like Rev's model and
like Flux still holds like a very
nostalgic even though it's been a year
value for me, you know, like I still go
back to Flux. There's like variations of
Flux models now that I like. I'll go
with midjourney which is not on file.
It's not available on API. Uh I I just
like the how they navigated the space I
think I think is is very interesting.
>> Like they kind of brought this like
photo realism which was um you know that
was like a very big deal at the time.
You know no model could do it. And then
now they're more like this artsy model,
right? Like it's no long photo realism
is kind of cracked and like no one cares
about it. So now they have this like
niche very artistic like uh visuals
which is very cool.
>> Yeah. I'd love to chat about the
marketplace dynamics a little bit. So I
understand your business as a little bit
of a marketplace where you aggregate
developers on one side of the market
that's the demand side and you aggregate
model vendors on the other side of the
market. That's the supply side. And the
model vendors are both you know
proprietary
APIs model labs that view you as a
distribution partner. Um and then also
open models that you uh that you host
and run yourselves. And so maybe talk a
little bit about for the closed model
providers. Uh you have partnerships with
OpenAI, Sora, with with Deep Mind on VO.
Um what's in it for them? Why did they
choose to partner with you?
>> We were one of the first platforms that
accumulated
the developer love and you know
following from that these developers
work at big companies. So they started
working with us and we really built the
platform for simplicity and being able
to get get going really fast. And
because the thing Banan mentioned the
half-life of these models is is really
short. Uh people usually work with many
different models at at the same time. So
we were able to claim that we have this
big developer base that that love the
platform and not tied into any single
model and here for the platform and uh
model research labs see this and they
they they use the platform for as a
distribution channel and tap into the
developer ecosystem that we built.
On the other side, this helps us with
the next model provider because they see
all the all the developers, they want to
they want to be on the platform as well,
which attracts more developers on the
platform and creates a very nice
positive flywheel for us.
>> Yeah, it very much is a marketplace
business and and for developers, it's a
single choke point to be able to access
uh multiple model vendors. And to your
point on like the model space is
changing so quickly, um I think they
really do value that choice. Yeah, we
call it marketplace plus+ because we get
to provide infrastructure to the
research labs as well also to the
developers. So there's additional
benefits which ties into the uh flywheel
effect that we are creating. So it's
marketplace plus other services next to
it.
>> How do you position yourselves to get
you know in some cases day zero launch
access sometimes exclusive launch access
to models like cling and minax? Have you
done that? Yeah, throughout the last two
years we were able to build a very
robust marketing machine as well. And
this this this is our connection point
with with the developers who are on the
platform. Every time we release
something, this creates another
opportunity for us to introduce a new
capability, introduce a new model and
model developers also see that. And we
we usually do co-arketing together and
part of that co-arketing we get
exclusive release access for a certain
period of time, sometimes sometimes
forever. Uh we are like we have couple
competitors that are on the smaller
side. So model developers want to work
with the biggest platform out there and
increasingly that platform is ours and
we get to have these exclusive benefits
with the model providers.
>> That's awesome. Why do you think it is
that the open-source model ecosystem has
been so vibrant for video models? Uh you
know it almost feels like the text
models are just consistently a
generation behind whereas in video you
know there's there's so much that's
happening in in the open source realm.
video and also image editing image
editing as well.
>> Why do you think that is?
>> It started with stability. They first
open source stable diffusion and got
insane adoption and almost the same team
then started black forest labs and they
knew the power of open source. how it it
helps them create the ecosystem. And
with image and media models, the
ecosystem actually matters. When
developers are training Lauras, they are
building adapters, they are building on
top of your model. It really brings free
marketing but also creates stickiness.
So that the developer there are still
people who are using stable diffusion
models because they like that ecosystem
because it was so open. Yeah. Um, so the
flex team saw this from their experience
at stability and they had a very smart
strategy of having at least some models
that are open source, some that are
closed source and uh a a lot of video
model providers that came after is is
follow following the same playbook
because you can have a very robust
ecosystem. It gives you a lot of
advantages uh in terms of marketing, in
terms of developer love and I think it's
going to keep keep going like this.
>> Yeah, totally. I want to add on to that
like the domain is also very interesting
like I think in the visual domain like
the ecosystem actually matters more like
I think when when like llama 2 first
came out there was like many fine tunes
out there but like if you actually
downloaded it and start using one like
you can't I mean
>> can't tell it's a fine
>> you can't tell like the difference like
you can't really you know if you're
using a
>> uh I don't know like a control net like
it concept doesn't even exist like it
doesn't you know language language
models are a lot more general like
generalized. So you can't really
understand like the difference if you if
you were to actually fine-tune it,
right? So so it kind of just ends up
being very monolithic as opposed to like
in the visual realm, it's just like um
any small adjustment you make to the
model, it can actually uh you know uh it
can actually have huge implications,
right? And so and so it's it's just it's
just uh you know very uh fertile ground
for like a lot of a lot of
customization.
>> Yeah. I mean speaking of midjourney,
David Holtz, one of his one of his
quotes I like is you know he's curating
the aesthetic space uh with Midjourney
and I I very much think you just have
this combinatorial explosion of of
styles. Yeah.
>> Aesthetically and I think that's the
reason why some of the I think some of
the models on your platform are are fine
tunes of other models, right? Yes. And
and like the the thing is like even if
you add a lot of diversity of
aesthetics, like if you if you actually
train on everything, like if you have
train on too many, you may not be able
to like actually get the exact like like
there's so many times you want the exact
aesthetics. Yeah.
>> And then you still you you may still
have to like fine-tune the model to get
exactly the output you want. Whereas
like with LLMs, that's not really like
how you operate. You don't exactly want
a particular outcome. It's it's like a
different it's a different problem. Uh
so so this is a lot more you know it's
it's very uh subjective. So like you
kind of have to do do these like post-
training things on top of the models.
Sora is another like good example like
Sora 2 is very fine-tuned on like social
looking stuff right and and and so you
know you could you could probably you
know you can have tens of different
styles and you you still want to
probably uh push the model towards that
direction with post training.
>> Yeah, absolutely. It all depends on the
use case too. Like a customer support
chatbot does not need personality. Like
you want it to be as as vanilla as
possible, but you're talking about
filmmakers, marketing teams, they all
want to add the personality of their
style or their brand. Uh so they they
want to have greater control over over
the outputs. Whereas maybe in LM that's
that's not necessarily true all the
time. If you have an agent, if you are
doing code generation, there's there's
no equivalent of style and personality.
>> Yeah. Okay, that's a good segue for us
to go one one more layer up the stack.
Let's go to workflows. What's the what
is the average developer workflow inside
fall look like today?
>> They are using many different models.
First of all, um so we looked looked
this up recently. Our top 100 customers,
they are using 14 different models at
the same time. These are sometimes
chained to each other. So one text to
image model, one upscaler, one image to
video model, all part of a same workflow
or like a many a more complicated
combination of this part of the same
workflow or different uh models used in
different use cases. I think that's the
most interesting part. The variety of
the models people use on the platform.
We do have a uh no code workflow builder
as well. We built this in in
collaboration with Shopify and this is
usually very good for their PMs, their
marketing teams, the nontechnical
members of the team who are playing with
these models. Uh it's really good for
trying different things, really good for
comparing different models, but
eventually this makes it into the
product as well. You can reach to this
workflow through an API. uh it's been
very popular recently and more and more
people in a typical software engineering
organization is now interested in image
and video models. So the users of this
platform has been increasing.
>> H okay so the average workflow is not
just text to prompt. It's not create a
five minute commercial that does it. If
I wanted to create a fiveminute
commercial what what would the workflow
be?
>> Yeah. So for this reason people actually
prefer open like that's one of the
reasons why people prefer open source
models because they get to have more
control over over the model and they
they can add things here and there to
steer the model towards the outputs they
want. Yeah. And when we when we go talk
to studios or more professional
marketing teams, they all love working
with the open source models because of
the pieces they can replace and control
they can add into the it. And then these
workflows are usually like the ones if
you've seen any like big conf UI
workflows with many different nodes, it
resembles those where each different
piece of the model can be replaced to
create more control for the creator. H
got it.
>> Yeah. And I think like what we have like
our workflow tool, it's not the final
form of like there's almost like a
another layer of abstraction maybe on
top in terms of workflow and like as we
talked to like these studios, we
actually figure out like there's so many
ways of just like there's so many ways
of using Photoshop like there's no
single workflow. In fact, like there's
probably like based on your role, right?
like you're a marketing person or you're
a animator or whatever like you have
different workflows right and so I think
I think that is also emerging like as as
more and more like professionals are
actually starting to use these tools
like you see the emergence of like uh
very particular workflows right one of
our favorite creators is PJ Ace uh he
actually like shares his workflows uh
online and every time like he posts
things you know every month he actually
has like a different kind of workflow.
It's it's really driven by like the new
models like based on based on new model
he may have a completely new new
workflow next time. I think I think once
like we sort of reach some sort of uh I
guess like some sort of productivity and
and you know some prof professionals
actually adopting these tools there will
probably be more sort of standardized
like best practices around around using
these these abstractions but like you
know it's not I don't think anyone knows
like the final final form yet and it's
it's like every day we see new things
and we try to like update our product to
make sure like it it cers those people.
>> Totally. One of the workflows I'm seeing
somewhat commonly is, you know, you have
an idea for high level what you want and
you type that in and then um and the
aesthetics that you want and you iterate
on the aesthetics from an image model
>> and you use that image model with the
aesthetics you want to then generate a
series of images which then form the
storyboard. Yes. So to speak
>> and then cascades down from there
>> and the video models kind of interpolate
in between them. And it's funny because
that's actually how you know that's how
you know Pixar and all these companies
work right in terms of storyboards. And
so
>> I think it was a cost thing in the
beginning. Yeah. Like that's why they
had to do it like that. But like it
actually also makes sense, right? Like
it makes sense in so many ways to do it
to do it like that. And yeah, they they
call the the that stuff pre-production
and then you know post or production,
right? So pre-production is all the all
the tooling around storyboarding etc.
like that's what everyone does like even
today. Uh even though it was like a very
cost cost thing now it's more of a speed
thing
>> and AI makes the workflow you know very
interesting where you have everything
laid out and let's say a new model new
text to image model comes out they they
built it in such a way that okay you can
press a button and now all different
combinations are going to be generated
with this other model and then you can
like generate all the videos again. We
we've seen those insane workflows. You
want to update one thing and the whole
thing is going to cost like a thousand
dollars to rerun it again. But these
individuals like they spend a ton of
money on on on creator platforms. I've
seen bills like half a million dollars
just spent by a single individual, maybe
even even more when it's it's a small
production studio, stuff like that. So
it's it's it's pretty incredible.
>> Totally wonderful. Okay, speaking of
studios who are building building on
your platform, let's let's go our final
layer up the stack. Let's talk about
customers and and markets and then what
the future might hold. Um maybe what are
the coolest things that people are
building on your platform today and are
with are they what we would think of as
traditional media businesses or are they
net new businesses?
>> It's it's all over the place. Like
what's most what's so exciting about
this space is that it just goes across
like all of the you know markets you can
possibly imagine. Like I'll give you
some more um I guess longtail stuff
first because because it's it's super
fun and interesting. There's a security
company that's building on top of fall
and they basically have these like
trainings and the trainings are
generated on the fly
>> and and the content is all dynamic.
Obviously, they have some scripts I'm
I'm guessing to to kind of fit like the
curriculum, but like the the content you
get, you know, per person um is is is
all dynamic.
>> This is Brian Long's company.
>> Yeah, this is adaptive security.
>> Um yeah, they they do they do some
really cool stuff. Uh I think that's one
of the like most unique uh use cases. Uh
you can see how that translates into
like rest of education. I think that
market is like kind of picking up. Uh
another one I think like um you know
this is this is more common use case I
guess is is uh like AI native studios
you you mentioned like the Bible app
that was that was one of my favorites uh
it's called faith it's one of the like
highest ranked apps on the on the app
store and yeah they have like stories
for each of the stories from the Bible
and and they're like really well
produced uh and you know this this sort
of category of AI native studio studios
u either in the form of you know
applications or or like they're doing
like you know feature um uh feature
films and and you know series and things
like that that's a huge category um so I
would call this like maybe new media or
like AI native media and entertainment
um there is also a lot of like design
and productivity like out of our uh
public uh customers like Canva is one of
those Adobe is one of those so they're
integrating kind of like in this um you
know in this older tooling they're
integrating new new models um ads is a
big one u so and ads kind of come in
many flavors um basically there's like
the UGC style ads like the stuff you see
like there's a person you know demoing a
product that's like a very big category
uh so AI generated versions of those
there's also kind of like older styles
of ads right more professionallook
higher higher production uh maybe you
saw the Coca-Cola ad uh that came out
recently. Some
>> controversy about that.
>> Yeah. Uh so that's that's like a kind of
a higher production um you know style of
ads but but you know what we're excited
about is also like programmatic ads,
right? So where where you can do
personalized um you know to the degree
of like like literally individuals
>> um
>> you know yourself being the ad or in the
movies whatever. So like that's that's
also a a big like growing use case.
>> Yeah, I'm most excited for the education
use case. I think that you know ads is
ads is you know the backbone of the of
commerce and the internet and so like
like super compelling business case but
education is a market that's like so
important and has never really had that
many compelling business cases behind
it. Yes.
>> And part of the challenge with education
I mean the challenge has been the
bottleneck to creating high quality
content at scale that's actually ideal
for the for the learner. And so I'm
personally most excited about education.
>> Same like I I really love the education
use cases and I actually think that like
chat PT or like just you know LLM in
general I think they are already solving
it in a way but it's not the right form
factor like if you if you actually want
to fully realize like the the the the
sort of power that these models are
bringing you actually need to go into
the visual space because then you know
it's so much more compact. it's more
approachable. Um, and and yeah, I think
once we actually crack like visual
learning like through these video
models, that's when it's going to, you
know, really just like impact people.
>> Do you think that the advent of
generative media is going to increase
the value of existing IP? So like Mario
Brothers, Nintendo, Disney, Pikachu, all
these things. Or do you think it's going
to lead to the democratization of the
creation of IP? I love this question
because it felt like I would say 6
months ago, it felt like
>> this was all happening too fast for
Hollywood the the IP holders to adapt
and be part of it. And from from our
viewpoint, we thought, all right, these
these AI native studios, they're just
going to take over and hold it is just
going to be too slow and this is going
to just go pass past them and they're
going to be left behind. Uh but this
this summer something changed and we've
been talking to a lot of usual suspects
from the Hollywood. We recently had our
first generative media conference and
Jeffrey Katsenberg, former CEO of
DreamWorks was there and he he made a
comparison. He said this is exactly
playing out how animation when it first
came out. People people revolted against
it. It was all handdrawn before that and
computer graphics. It was new and there
was a lot of um rebellion against
computer-driven animation. And something
very similar is is happening with AI
right now. But there's there's no way of
stopping technology. It's just going to
happen. You're either going to be part
of it or or not. Uh so we are seeing a
lot of existing IP holders are now
taking this very seriously and at least
for the medium term I think they are
pretty well positioned because they have
the technical people who are actually
really interested behind the scenes in
this technology. They also have the IP
but they also have storytelling and film
making knowhow. Uh you still need quite
large budgets. Maybe things are going to
get cheaper but in the mid medium term
film making is still going to be
expensive. Yes, AI is going to make it
maybe a little bit cheaper but we need
these deeply technical people who know
film making who has the IP who know
storytelling to actually in the
beginning be part of this and I think
they're going to play a big role in the
next coming years in the AI ecosystem.
Yeah, when there's infinite uh content
generation, it almost puts a value on
the things that are finite. And I think,
you know, for those of us who grew up
with Power Rangers or Neopets or
whatever, there is just this nostalgia
element and this finite supply of of IP
that really resonates with us.
>> The opposite is true too. Also, there's
a lot of new like we had little toys of
these Italian Railroad characters. These
are characters with no IP. No one owns
them. They are completely AI generated
from like the internet community and
once you have
>> cheap generation of content very
different permutations of it things that
people like catches on and it becomes
part of the zeitgeist. So totally
>> the opposite there's signs of opposite
true as well.
>> Yeah both are true. How do you related
question how do we prevent like the
infinite slop machine state of the
world? you know, there's this, you know,
version where we're just connected to
this machine that knows how to
personalize stuff for us and we're just,
you know, uh, we're just hooked up to
the infinite slop slot machine and
there's a version where there's, you
know, human creativity and artistry and,
uh, things like that involved. Like, how
do you think the world plays out?
>> I think, um, humans eventually like
converge on on the things that are more
meaningful. uh in general like I don't
know like no matter how much slot we
fill the world with I think I think you
know taste prevails uh and and people
are drawn to like you know experiences
that are personal and and human and you
know I I just think that uh that's going
to happen. One interesting um example of
this was like when Meta announced Vibes
uh and then OpenAI announced Sora 2,
like the reception was very different.
And one of the like reasons in my mind
was like Vibes was like positioned as
this uh you know slot machine kind like
kind of thing where you know they they
didn't they didn't have the product out
at the time but but it was just like
these AI generated like just you have no
relation to the characters etc right
like it was kind of this like detached
thing whereas like Sora really made it
about friends right like cameo and and
you know they were very
>> and now you can cameo your pets There
you go. [laughter] It's huge, right? Um,
so yeah, I think I think like this this
connection to like friends and and pets
and and things like that that actually
made and Sora was also like they were
being very personal about it. They were
they were very uh adamant about like hey
we want to make this about friends. We
want to make this about you know um you
know these connections as opposed to you
know influence slot machine. So, so I I
think that's you know that that that
perception was also I think a good good
signal that like there's ways to uh work
make this technology work uh you know in
a in a good way.
>> Absolutely. Okay. I want to get your
perspective on timelines uh and what's
feasible today and what's feasible to
come. I guess do you think that we'll
see Hollywood grade feature film length
films entirely generated by AI and and
if so on what timeline?
>> What what does entirely generate by AI
means? Is it like no human involvement
or like
>> no human filming? So
>> editing is okay editing?
>> Yes, absolutely human editing but no no
human filming.
>> I think less than a year we'll have like
you know advanced video models with
combined with the storyboarding that
people have been doing. you'll have
feature grade short films uh like less
than 20 minutes. I think that's that's a
fair estimation. Like even today I think
you can like do really great films. It's
just like not enough investment of time
is go going into these. Yeah.
>> But like with enough investment of time
and the model quality I think will be
there.
>> I think we're already there. Okay. And
you you think it's photorealistic? You
think it's anime? You think what like
what categories do you think are more
likely to happen sooner? I think photo
realistic is like what everyone is like
targeting, but like anime would be a
cool one, right? Like it's like you
don't see that many anime specialized
models. Why not? I think it's there
needs to be a market for that.
>> Clearly, I I think it's going to be
animation or or anime or cartoon like
one like not photo realistic like as far
away from photo realistic as possible.
maybe even like as fantasy as possible
because filming photo realism is cheap
and doable already. Like that's not what
costs money when people are making
movies. It's the non-photore realistic
stuff that's actually expensive. And um
you know even if you look at the
animated movies, some of the my favorite
movies are animated. The Toy Story
series, How to Train Your Dragon, Shrek,
Ratatouille. And people like these
things not because it it it reminds them
photo realism. It it's the storytelling
that matters and this this created a new
medium. I think AI is going to be
similar to animation and how that
brought a whole different angle to film
making. Yeah, I think feature films are
hard like because yeah with photo
realism like you you you typically I
mean people usually like the movies that
their like favorite actors are in
whatever actors actresses and that's you
know so so it's like it's like one step
removed from
>> that's the thing that costs money to get
the actors.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. So so so that's the
you know we we first need to build a
connection to this AI you know AI
generated character before we can turn
turn into a film. Yeah.
>> Um but but I think like yeah I think I
think it's
among like different kinds of content
like shorts you know uh I think Italian
Brain Rod is an amazing example right it
was first like these characters and then
it became a Roblox game
>> uh and making I don't even know like you
know a lot of revenue. So so yeah I
think I think like AI native stuff is uh
and shorter uh form content is is
probably going to be very very big. We
saw this with VFX where like the VFX
effects like one of the most expensive
parts of like producing these videos or
films is is like got like AI fight very
very quickly because it's very easy for
AI to do like explosions, right? Like or
a building collapse. It's like almost
perfect now and I think it's just going
to continue along on that dimension
>> with like
>> and maybe facial expressions are going
to be hard and they're very hard.
>> You don't have to do face facial
expressions. That's going to be okay.
But now they can do gymnastics.
>> Yeah, gymnastics are important.
[laughter] Good thing we have a lot of
footage of Olympics. So,
>> um, what about you mentioned Roblox? At
what point do you do you think we'll
have interactive video games that are
generated in real time?
>> Yes, I think so. I I'm very excited
about it actually. Like I think I think
like in in one world I think the the
sort of next reasonable step for text to
video like if you if you think text to
video is the continuation of text to
image I would say like a text to game is
the continuation of text to video um
because you know with a with a game you
would you know you essentially making
the video interactive right that's
that's kind of what that means and I I
actually think that there is a world
where this hyper
I know hyper casual games exist but this
is like another level of hyper casual
where it's actually discardable. Uh I
think I think we're not too far away
from that. I I actually feel like pretty
um pretty bullish on having like these
you know one-time uh playable games like
very short games. Yeah.
>> Um I I think that's probably going to
happen. I think that's a good use case
for world models other than many other
great use cases. Uh but but I think I
think it's going to happen.
>> What about AAA quality games? Will we
will these models at least, you know,
assist and change the development
pipeline of those games or
>> Yeah, I think they're already impacting
like at least LLMs are impacting like
conversations. There's like, you know,
dynamic conversations, things like that.
Um I think um pre-production stuff is
impacted already. Um I think like kind
of side quest like IP stuff is impacted,
right? like where you have the assets
and you can make it miniame. I think
people are using it actually not very
public but like that is already
happening. I think like using for AAA
production or like generating that with
a model that's like I don't know at
least like three four years ahead uh for
me and and yeah it's it's I mean that
would be insane if if we can actually do
that. Um but but you know along the way
there just like the just like the uh you
know video space I think along the way
to the AAA there's like many other
things and I think those are going to be
very big.
>> Yeah the video model space has just
exploded in terms of options quality
etc. As you look ahead towards what's
needed to get us to the promised land
for everything that generative media can
be, do you think that there's, you know,
future R&D breakthroughs that are needed
on the horizon like fundamental R&D
breakthroughs or do you think we're very
much in the engineering scaleup uh leg
of the race?
>> I think the architecture needs to like
slightly [snorts] change at least like
if you think about like scaling these
models by 10x 100x. I think the
architecture is a big
>> bottleneck right now in terms of the
inference efficiency, right? like the
more compression of the video space then
that's definitely needed like we we saw
this with image image models used to be
like much less compressed and then the
lat like or like you were operating at
the pixel space and then we introduced
latent space and then like even inside
that latent space you took like 64
pixels and made them a single pixel uh
and now like with video we're
compressing on a time dimension where
we're seeing like 4x ratios why not like
24x or whatever like you you need to
like increase that like compression and
like I think that's going to be a big
driver of improving both inference
efficiency as well as training
efficiency. But like I think like any
model like I think at this age that
we're operating any model you take on
the generative media side we're far from
being like scaled up engineering wise
like I think there's not enough
investment being put into or like it
just started happening in within the
past six months like Google showed this
with like their models and how quickly
they were able to catch up. They didn't
need to innovate that much. It's just
like they have the resources they can
put more more effort into it. But at the
same time smaller labs uh are able to
demonstrate this because like there's so
much like unique and noble stuff that
you can do at the data level to train
these models. So I think that's also
like helping contributing and there's
the factor of you know like outside like
you know mid-tier labs that raise like
hundred to a billion dollars that's also
trying to come up with models releasing
them open source or like contributing
their ecosystem.
>> Yeah,
>> that's what's so exciting about this
space. There's so much more work to do.
Like so far the research community did
the simplest thing possible. They
captioned images and trained a model on
on text to text prompt and now like we
are doing video image editing that
requires a lot more data engineering to
to create the data sets. But luckily
seemingly we have a lot of abundant free
video data. We are not we're going to
run out of compute before we run out of
video data. So that means there's a lot
more work to do and a lot more room for
improvement. I mean earlier on like
Guram's math also indicates that like if
you want to get to 4K video real time
that is like I mean that that means like
I don't know 100x maybe more in um in
com like compute or architecture
something has to something has to give
to to to get us there right um uh and
yeah like right now a lot of models are
like not that usable like for for uh for
professionals especially right? Or or
even for like consumer, right? Like if
you're if you're sitting there like for
the best models, you still have to wait
like 40 seconds, I don't know. Sometimes
you have to wait two minutes, 3 minutes,
like that's not really acceptable in a
world where like we want everything like
on demand. So, so yeah, I think I think
something needs to change. Yeah.
>> Uh and probably pace of like hardware
getting faster is not enough. I think if
if that's the case, you know, it'll take
much longer. We'll have longer
timelines. So, I think architecture
needs to get better.
>> Awesome. Thank you guys. You made a very
high conviction bet on generative media
as a theme. I think way before it was
obvious. I think we are just at the
start of I think what's going to be an
explosion of generative media. And it's
been really cool to hear about
everything you've built from the kernel
optimizations and the compiler all the
way up to uh the workflows and and what
you're seeing from customers with with
new and and old media alike. And so um
thank you for joining us on the show
today.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much.
>> This was a lot of fun.
[music]
Heat. Heat.